Migrate airflow-passing-data-between-tasks guide (#1085)
astronomer/docs: guides/airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md

---

> title: "Pass data between Airflow tasks"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Passing data between Airflow tasks"
```
For concept docs I think it's better to use "ing" verbs to indicate that there's not a core process/ tutorial in the guide.

> sidebar_label: "Pass data between Airflow tasks"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "Pass data between tasks"
```

> description: "An overview of the methods available for sharing metadata and information between tasks in your Apache Airflow DAGs, including XCom."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn about methods available for sharing metadata and information between tasks in your Apache Airflow DAGs, including XCom."
```

id: airflow-passing-data-between-tasks

> tags: ["DAGs", "XCom", "Tasks", "Dependencies"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: [DAGs, XCom, Tasks, Dependencies]
```

---

> > Note: All code in this guide can be found in [the Github repo](https://github.com/astronomer/airflow-guide-passing-data-between-tasks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: All code in this guide can be found in [the Github repo](https://github.com/astronomer/airflow-guide-passing-data-between-tasks).
```

Sharing data between tasks is a very common use case in Airflow. If you've been writing DAGs, you probably know that breaking them up into smaller tasks is a best practice for debugging and recovering quickly from failures. What do you do when one of your downstream tasks requires metadata about an upstream task, or processes the results of the task immediately before it?

> There are a few methods you can use to implement data sharing between your Airflow tasks. In this tutorial, you'll walk through the two most commonly used methods, learn when to use them, and use some example DAGs to understand how they can be implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few methods you can use to implement data sharing between your Airflow tasks. In this tutorial, you'll walk through the two most commonly used methods, learn when to use them, and use some example DAGs to understand how they can be implemented.

## Best practices
```

When designing a DAG that passes data between tasks, it's important that you ensure that each task is idempotent. This helps with recovery and ensures no data is lost if a failure occurs.

### Consider the size of your data

Knowing the size of the data you are passing between Airflow tasks is important when deciding which implementation method to use. As you'll learn, XComs are one method of passing data between tasks, but they are only appropriate for small amounts of data. Large data sets require a method making use of intermediate storage and possibly utilizing an external processing framework.

## XCom

The first method for passing data between Airflow tasks is to use XCom, which is a key Airflow feature for sharing task data.

### What is XCom

> [XCom](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts.html?highlight=xcom#concepts-xcom) (short for cross-communication) is a built-in Airflow feature. XComs allow tasks to exchange task metadata or small amounts of data. They are defined by a key, value, and timestamp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[XCom](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts.html?highlight=xcom#concepts-xcom) is a built-in Airflow feature. XComs allow tasks to exchange task metadata or small amounts of data. They are defined by a key, value, and timestamp.
```

XCom cannot be used for passing large data sets between tasks. The limit for the size of the XCom is determined by which metadata database you are using:

- Postgres: 1 Gb
- SQLite: 2 Gb
- MySQL: 64 Kb

You can see that these limits aren't very big. And even if you think your data might meet the maximum allowable limit, don't use XComs. Instead, use intermediary data storage, which is more appropriate for larger amounts of data.  

### Custom XCom backends

[Custom XCom Backends](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts.html?highlight=xcom#custom-xcom-backend) are a new feature available in Airflow 2.0 and greater. Using an XCom backend means you can push and pull XComs to and from an external system such as S3, GCS, or HDFS rather than the default of Airflow's metadata database. You can also implement your own serialization and deserialization methods to define how XComs are handled. This is a concept in its own right and you can learn more by reading [Custom XCom Backends](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/custom-xcom-backends).

> 
> ### Example DAGs

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Example DAG using XComs
```

> In this section, you'll review two sample DAGs that use XCom to pass data between tasks. For this example, the increase in total number of Covid tests for the current day for a particular state are analyzed. To implement this use case, the first task makes a request to the [Covid Tracking API](https://covidtracking.com/data/api) and pulls the `totalTestResultsIncrease` parameter from the results. The second task takes the results from the first task and performs an analysis. This is a valid use case for XCom, because the data being passed between the tasks is a single integer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you'll review a DAG that uses XCom to pass data between tasks. The DAG uses XComs to analyze the increase in total number of Covid tests for the current day for a particular state. To implement this use case, the first task makes a request to the [Covid Tracking API](https://covidtracking.com/data/api) and pulls the `totalTestResultsIncrease` parameter from the results. The second task takes the results from the first task and performs an analysis. This is a valid use case for XCom, because the data being passed between the tasks is a single integer.
```

For the `xcom_pull` call in the `analyze_testing_increases` function, you specify the `key` and `task_ids` associated with the XCom you want to retrieve. This allows you to pull any XCom value (or multiple values) at any time into a task. It does not need to be from the task immediately prior as shown in this example.

If you run this DAG and then go to the XComs page in the Airflow UI, you'll see that a new row has been added for your `get_testing_increase_data_wa` task with the key `testing_increase` and Value returned from the API.

![Example XCom](/img/guides/example_xcom.png)

In the logs for the `analyze_data` task, you can see the value from the prior task was printed, meaning the value was successfully retrieved from XCom.

![Example XCom Log](/img/guides/example_xcom_log.png)

> <!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
> <ul class="learn-more-list">
>     <p>You might also like:</p>
>     <li data-icon="→"><a href="/events/webinars/taskflow-api-airflow-2.0" onclick="analytics.track('Clicked Learn More List Link', { page: location.href, buttonText: 'TaskFlow API in Airflow 2.0 Webinar', spottedCompany: window.spottedCompany })">TaskFlow API in Airflow 2.0 Webinar</a></li>
>     <li data-icon="→"><a href="https://registry.astronomer.io/dags/xcom-gcs-ds" onclick="analytics.track('Clicked Learn More List Link', { page: location.href, buttonText: 'Data Science Modeling Using Google Cloud Storage XCom Backend', spottedCompany: window.spottedCompany })">Data Science Modeling Using Google Cloud Storage XCom Backend</a></li>
>     <li data-icon="→"><a href="/events/webinars/manage-dependencies-between-airflow-deployments-dags-tasks" onclick="analytics.track('Clicked Learn More List Link', { page: location.href, buttonText: 'Manage Dependencies Between Airflow Deployments, DAGs, and Tasks Webinar', spottedCompany: window.spottedCompany })">Manage Dependencies Between Airflow Deployments, DAGs, and Tasks Webinar</a></li>
>     <li data-icon="→"><a href="/blog/build-an-etl-process" onclick="analytics.track('Clicked Learn More List Link', { page: location.href, buttonText: 'How to Build an ETL Process?', spottedCompany: window.spottedCompany })">How to Build an ETL Process?</a></li>
>     <li data-icon="→"><a href="/guides/custom-xcom-backends" onclick="analytics.track('Clicked Learn More List Link', { page: location.href, buttonText: 'Custom XCom Backends', spottedCompany: window.spottedCompany })">Custom XCom Backends</a></li>
> </ul>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## TaskFlow API

> Another way to implement this use case is to use the [TaskFlow API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/tutorial_taskflow_api.html) that was released with Airflow 2.0. With the TaskFlow API, returned values are pushed to XCom as usual, but XCom values can be pulled simply by adding the key as an input to the function as shown in the following DAG:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way to implement the previous DAG is to use the [TaskFlow API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/tutorial_taskflow_api.html) that was released with Airflow 2.0. With the TaskFlow API, returned values are pushed to XCom as usual, but XCom values can be pulled simply by adding the key as an input to the function as shown in the following DAG:
```

## Intermediary data storage

As mentioned previously, XCom is a great option for sharing data between tasks because it doesn't rely on any tools external to Airflow itself. However, it is only designed to be used for very small amounts of data. What if the data you need to pass is a little bit larger, for example a small dataframe?

The best way to manage this use case is to use intermediary data storage. This means saving your data to some system external to Airflow at the end of one task, then reading it in from that system in the next task. This is commonly done using cloud file storage such as S3, GCS, or Azure Blob Storage, but it could also be done by loading the data in either a temporary or persistent table in a database.

While this is a great way to pass data that is too large to be managed with XCom, you should still exercise caution. Airflow is meant to be an orchestrator, not an execution framework. If your data is very large, it is probably a good idea to complete any processing using a framework like Spark or compute-optimized data warehouses like Snowflake or dbt.

### Example DAG

> Building on the previous Covid example, you are now interested in getting all of the daily Covid data for a state and processing it. This case would not be ideal for XCom, but since the data returned is a small dataframe, it can be processed with Airflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building on the previous COVID example, you are now interested in getting all of the daily COVID data for a state and processing it. This case would not be ideal for XCom, but since the data returned is a small dataframe, it can be processed with Airflow.
```

Author: @jwitz good catch! I was obviously asleep at the wheel...
